.Dd 2009-11-19
.Dt AVL_TREE_INIT 3
.Os libavl
.Sh NAME
.Nm avl_tree_init ,
.Nm avl_tree_malloc ,
.Nm avl_tree_clear ,
.Nm avl_tree_free ,
.Nm avl_tree_purge
.Nd functions for augmented AVL tree lifecycle management
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libavl
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In avl.h
.Ft avl_tree_t *
.Fn avl_tree_init "avl_tree_t *tree" "avl_cmp_t cmp" "avl_free_t freeitem"
.Ft avl_tree_t *
.Fn avl_tree_malloc "avl_cmp_t cmp" "avl_free_t free"
.Ft avl_tree_t *
.Fn avl_tree_clear "avl_tree_t *tree"
.Ft void
.Fn avl_tree_free "avl_tree_t *tree"
.Ft avl_tree_t *
.Fn avl_tree_purge "avl_tree_t *"
.Fn AVL_TREE_INITIALIZER "avl_cmp_t cmp" "avl_free_t freeitem"
.Ft const avl_tree
.Dv avl_tree_0 ;
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn avl_tree_init
initializes the structure pointed to by
.Fa tree
for use with other avl functions.
.Pp
The elements in this tree will be ordered using the
.Fn strcmp Ns
-like function supplied in
.Fa cmp
(which may be
.Dv NULL
for unsorted, ordered lists) and if
.Fa freeitem
is not
.Dv NULL
then the delete functions in the avl library will use this to free any memory
associated with the stored item.
.Pp
.Fn avl_tree_malloc
allocates an avl_tree_t and initializes it using
.Fn avl_tree_init .
.Pp
.Fn avl_tree_clear
reinitializes the tree structure without calling any ordering/freeing
functions, effectively orphaning any tree nodes that it contains.
.Pp
.Fn avl_tree_purge
reinitializes the tree structure, calling all
.Fa freeitem
functions and calling
.Fn free
on all nodes.
.Pp
.Fn avl_tree_free
is like
.Fn avl_tree_purge
but also calls
.Fn free
on the tree itself.
.Pp
.Fn AVL_TREE_INITIALIZER
is a macro that can be used to initialize tree structures as they are
declared. For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
avl_tree_t tree = AVL_TREE_INITIALIZER(strcmp, free);
.Ed
.Pp
.Dv avl_tree_0
is a constant that can be used as a blank template for tree structures.
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
*tree = avl_tree_0;
tree->cmp = strcmp;
.Ed
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Those functions that return anything return the value of
.Fa tree
(even if it's
.Dv NULL ) .
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn avl_tree_malloc
function can fail if and only if
.Fn malloc
fails.
If
.Fn malloc
fails, it sets
.Dv errno
appropriately. In particular, it may return
.Dv NULL
and set
.Dv errno
to:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOMEM
Out of memory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr avl 7 ,
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr free 3 ,
.Xr strcmp 3
